---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2002-05-20 03:08:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2002/05/19/well-i-seem-to-have-neglected-this-thing-for-a-fe/
slug: well-i-seem-to-have-neglected-this-thing-for-a-fe
title: Well, I seem to have neglected this thing for a fe...
wordpress_id: 22
categories:
- comics
- movies
---

Well, I seem to have neglected this thing for a few days.  I was going to just sort of ignore what I wrote the other day and drift off without having posted that thing that I was going to post, because I started wondering about getting sued for posting so much of another writer's work.  So I won't name names (and more no-prizes are up for grabs for naming who wrote this and when), but when pharma-G-man gave me positive feedback, well that's all I needed.  Before I get to my copyright infringing I'd like to say that I had a good time at Saffron's last night.  Cheers to those involved!  Jeers to this rusty doorknob!  Anyone around here read comics?  I just picked up the first trade collection of Planetary and am suitably impressed, especially by the monster island issue in which these whacked out followers of this Japanese author stumble upon the corpses of Mothra and Godzilla (along with others, I'm sure Rodan's skeleton was in there but am unfamiliar with its form).  Rebellion foments when their leader decides they must eat of the Godzilla's putrefying flesh.  Good times.  Okay (okay!) so here's my copyright infringing.  I might say something myself at the end.
  

  
"Security . . . what does this word mean in relation to life as we know it today?  For the most part, it means safety and freedom from worry.  It is said to be the end that all men strive for; but is security a utopian goal or is it another word for rut?  Let us visualize the secure man; and by this term, I mean a man who has settled for financial and personal security for his goal in life.  In general, he is a man who has pushed ambition and initiative aside and settled down, so to speak, in a boring, but safe and comfortable rut for the rest of his life.  His future is but an extension of his present, and he accepts it as such with a complacent shrug of his shoulders.  His ideas and ideals are those of society in general and he is accepted as a respectable, but average and prosaic man.  But is he a man?  Has he any self respect or pride in himself?  How could he, when he has risked nothing and gained nothing?  What does he think when he sees his youthful dreams of adventure, accomplishment, travel and romance buried under the cloak of conformity?  How does he feel when he realizes that he has barely tasted the meal of life; when he sees the prison that he has made for himself in pursuit of the almighty dollar?  _If he thinks this is all well and good, fine_, but think of the tragedy of a man who has sacrificed his freedom on the altar of security, and wishes he could turn back the hands of time.  A man is to be pitied who lacked the courage to accept the challenge of freedom and depart from the cushion of security and see life as it is instead of living it second hand.  Life has bypassed this man and he has watched from a secure place, afraid to seek anything better.  What has he done except to sit and wait for the tomorrow which never comes?  Turn back the pages of history and see the men who have shaped the destiny of the wrold.  Security was never their, but they lived rather than existed.  Where would the world be if all men sought security and not taken risks or gambled with their lives on the chance that if they won, life would be different and richer?  It is from the bystanders (who are in the vast majority) that we receive the propaganda that life is not worth living, that life is a drudgery, that the ambitions of youth must be laid aside for a life which is but a painful wait for death.  These are the ones who squeeze what excitement they can from life out of the imaginations and experiences of others through books and movies.  These are the insignificant and forgotten men who preach conformity because it is all they know.  These are the men who dream at night of what could have been, but who wake at dawn to take their places at the now-familiar rut and to merely exist through another day.  For them the romance of life is long dead and they are forced to go through their years on a treadmill, cursing their existence, yet afraid to die because of the unknown which faces them after death.  They lacked the only true courage: the kind which enables men to face the unknown regardless of the consequences."
  

  
So that was the thing and as I was typing it out this time (second time I've retyped it) I realized what a Fight Club vibe it has.  Not that that's any big revelation or anything, but I hadn't made that specific connection until this time.
