---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2003-11-10 21:25:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2003/11/10/asunder/
slug: asunder
title: asunder
wordpress_id: 175
categories:
- movies
---

So on the one (lazy irresponsible) hand it's good that our media & politics presentation for tomorrow has been postponed because I can work on it a bit more.  On the other it's very bad because I was getting glad to get it out of the way (and because it's being postponed because my presentationbuddy is hideously ill).
  

  
Lazy and irresponsible will probably win out in the end, even though it just means I'll be doing the same griping I've done for the last 15 days for the next.  Selah.
  

  
Good thing that happened this weekend: Ludmilla and I went out for dinner and saw Intolerable Cruelty.  It was very weird not seeing Working Title in the opening credits (of the menu).  There were some excellent bits, and some things that made me wish it was more like previous Coen Brothers movies but all in all, I didn't hate it.  So hooray for that.  
  

  
I saw Once Upon a Time in Mexico last week, and Johnny Depp is too fucking cool for that movie, which didn't really hold together.  The movie was disappointing in the way that all the sweet bits didn't really have anything to do with anything.  But wow on Depp going blind through the Day of the Dead.  I think it was kind of like Traffic.  If Traffic had just been the Benecio delToro parts of the movie, I would have loved it.  If OUaT in Mexico was just the Johnny Depp parts I'd have been blown away.
