---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-12-14 15:42:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/12/14/dilemma/
slug: dilemma
title: dilemma
wordpress_id: 377
categories:
- 中国
---

Yesterday I saw a PS2 and pile of pirated games at a shop here in town.  I asked how much the system costs and the guy said 1000RMB (about $140 but I could probably get it down some).  I know that I didn't come to China to play video games and I shouldn't buy it.  It's just another thing for me to do that wouldn't be studying Chinese.  
  
But video games are fun.  I like fun.  I could be playing GTA: San Andreas instead of just waiting for time to pass so I can legitimately go to bed.  Or ESPN NBA 2K5.  If I get extra controllers I could play basketball against my students (without all that tedious running around).  
  
There'd be that layer of guilt pervading it every time I played anything though.  Just like when I spend an afternoon reading.  
  
But all my students (and hence all my friends) get locked in classrooms every evening so we aren't socializing anyway.  Why shouldn't I buy video games to play sometimes?  
  
This is the same guilt I have whenever I wear my iPod out walking around.  I should be immersing myself in this foreign culture without the cocoon of music I can stand.  I should be immersing myself in shitty Chinapop and pretending to love it.  This should be an ordeal I'm going through to come out stronger on the other side, right?  I shouldn't be doing things I enjoy because they're North American and therefore bad.  
  
Here's the thing I'm realizing.  I don't like the things I don't like and the things I like are things I like.  I like trying new things but I wish they'd be something I really find fun once in a while.  
  
[Sigh](http://www.wigu.com/wigu/?date=20021227).
