---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-07-26 16:16:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/07/26/hoo-ha/
slug: hoo-ha
title: hoo! ha!
wordpress_id: 210
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- beijing
- best of...
---

I saw my first suitably Chinese thing yesterday.  The first thing that made me go, Yes, here I am in China.  It wasn't the woman on a bicycle being forced to swerve into oncoming traffic in front of our bus.  It wasn't the unintelligibility of every sign I see (why don't they all just say China?  I know those characters.).  It was two old men meeting on the street.

It was just outside the window where we were discussing the different kinds of hospitality over dinner.  A man with a bald head and white Pai Mei beard was shuffling by, using an umbrella as a cane.  Coming from the opposite direction was a slightly younger and fatter old man (he still had some black in his beard which was worn in the Amish way, way down under his chin with no moustache) who was carrying a cane.  They get close to each other and Amish hops up onto the curb, twirling his cane and saying something to Pai Mei.  PM answers back and holds up his umbrella, the long kind with a wooden hook-like handle.  He puts it back by his side and for a moment or two they sized each other up.  I swear it looked like I was about to need a jive-ass disco soundtrack  to keep up with some cats who were fast as lightning. There were carts and televisions on the street to flip over; I was sitting behind a huge window just begging to be smashed; they had spectators, a wall, illegally parked cars - everything was ripe for a battle between two masters.  But no, they just laughed to each other and shuffled/walked with a jaunty flourish away.
