---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-10-22 05:57:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/10/22/boom/
slug: boom
title: boom
wordpress_id: 299
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- best of...
- riot
- sean
---

The bank picture probably is connected with everything.  Margie heard that in the original fight on Monday night (between a couple and a bangbang man) people got very angry and set fire to a police car.  Which could have been in front of the bank.  That kind of puts things in better perspective than a fist-fight causing the city to be overrun with police and army people.  One of my students said that two people are in jail now because of this.

Also, one of my friends who knows about these things gave me a list of possibilities for those controlled explosions I heard Tuesday night.

_1. flashbangs..as you mentioned, though these are normally only dispersed in tactical clearnace sweeps....aka before shooting people which im sure you would have heard.
2.  Fireworks...totally unrelated event
3.  High powered blanks for crowd dispersion
4.  A teargas cannister being fired 3 times in revolving action out of one of those old soviet revolving riot control guns
5.  A sks or AK47 firing on burst mode once (3 automatic rounds discharged w/ one pull of the trigger) although im assuming you know the tiny bit enough about ballistic weapons to know a rifle firing when you hear one...that said with distance and echo could be one ill-disciplined
military/cop had a accidental discharge (the firearm kind, you sick fuck)_

So there's more word on the street info.  I hope that redeems me and Sean doesn't have to take the cheese grater to his arm.
