---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-07-16 01:57:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/07/15/sequels/
slug: sequels
title: sequels
wordpress_id: 207
categories:
- movies
---

Two days on planning documents have driven my car into the ocean. Though I did manage to write half a song during the most tedious presentation on long-term policy goals. The song sounds sort of Dan Bern-ish to me in my head, but it doesn't translate well onto the page, so no lyrics for you.
  

  
My passport is back in my possession with a shiny new Chinese visa.
  

  
A week from now I could be very drunk. Tonight, not so much. It's very odd how this no alcohol policy with my organization (that I'm not allowed to name on my blog because of occasions such as this) is actually affecting me. Normally I don't crave beer. Beer is good, but not a driving force to my existence. This week I have craved beer. It's been so hot and muggy and thunderstormy a few beers on a patio would hit the spot immensely. But not for us. No weed either, which would have been nice for this crappy cross-cultural understanding game we played tonight. Matt said I made our facilitator woman sad when I laughed at one of her questions about how we felt playing the game. It was ridiculous. "The game made me feel intense shame over having molested my pet rabbit when I was 17." Bah.
  

  
Saw[ The Station Agent](http://thestationagent.com/home.html) yesterday.  I really liked it as a movie about friendship that didn't try to make it into something it wasn't.  Sort of like [The Big Lebowski](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0118715/) but less happens.
  

  
I might go to Philly on Saturday.
  

