---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-12-22 11:56:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/12/22/xmas-rush/
slug: xmas-rush
title: xmas rush
wordpress_id: 385
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- christmas
---

It's a good thing that I took some time to calm down.  There would have been a lot more swearing otherwise.  I forget just how difficult it is to do simple things sometimes.  And that you need to have enough money in your wallet to get things done properly.  
  
I needed to print off a review sheet for my British Culture class so they don't all do as miserably as they did on the midterm.  I spent the morning getting it set up and then was going to print it off and make copies.  This should not be a difficult task.  
  
Of course, my printer has had no ink in it for months.  The Foreign Affairs Office gets weird about me doing things myself (like changing light bulbs) but they never remember about the ink.  So until now whenever I've needed to print something I email it to myself then hook up the other computer, and put it onto a floppy disk and take it to the English department and print it there.  Yes I should just get a memory stick thingy but I haven't yet.  The English department closes from 12 - 2:30 so I couldn't go at noon.  But I could go get an ink cartridge.  
  
Emily came over after lunch and we hung out for a while so it was 3 o'clock before I went downtown to buy ink.  Once there it took a while to find the right one but we did.  And it was 20 RMB more than I had on me.  So the guy sold me an ink refill instead and filled it, but it wouldn't work right for him.  He told me to soak it in hot water for 10 minutes and it'd be fine.  
  
Back at my apartment my water heater has decided to stop working.  Fuck this, I say and email the thing to myself.  Or try to.  I get messages back saying that it's having problems logging in, did I use the right password? I'd just sent an email ten minutes before and it had been fine.  It took till 6 for the review to get emailed to myself.  When the English department is long closed.  
  
So tomorrow I'll get up early and bring the disk down to print it off and then I'll go photocopy it at a nearby copyshop rather than using the school's photocopier which would take days.  I'm not entirely clear why the school has only three photocopiers, and they're all in one office.  Hopefully I'll get it all done before I have to be in class.  And let the FAO know I really need my water heater fixed.  
  
I know I won't be in the good Christmas spirit for tomorrow's class on holidays in Britain.  Just the bad stressed and frazzled Christmas spirit.  
  
Listening to: **Leaving on a Jet Plane**   
by [Me First & the Gimme Gimmees](http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Me First & the Gimme Gimmees%22)
