---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-09-26 08:09:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/09/26/party/
slug: party
title: party
wordpress_id: 264
categories:
- 中国
---

Remember when I said that I didn't care that Wanzhou had no foreigners?  I was going to just hang out with Chinese people and all that.  Well last night I actually met the load of foreigners that is here.  Rob is from England and it's his birthday on Monday so he invited them over.  There's Big Rob and Rebecca and their two daughters from Australia, Michelle from Calgary, Emmanuel, Tony from Zambia, and Phoebe and Vanisha from Kenya and Cameroon respectively.  
  
Wow.  It's different hanging out with non-myorganizationwhichremainsnamelesssoIcanlink(andswear)freely-ers.  Mid-thirties women going on about their drinking binges and how they get into fights in bars.  I got lectured about how my contract was awful and I must be quite a dunce to have signed it (and for two years no less!).  My explanations didn't really work with that guy.    
  
But Rob himself is cool.  He's someone I can talk with and would have no problem hanging out with at home.  We went to a little karaoke place that had Radiohead's song Creep, and The Gambler.  There are a couple more people who should be getting back into town this week, Lee and Mark, and Rob says they're cool too.  
  
One of the things that students say all the time when you first meet them is "I hope that we can become good friends."  But it's really nice to meet someone that that might actually be true of.  
  
I also learned about some of the resentment that students have about Sanxiau college.  Very interesting.  
  
Listening to: **Alright: Music For More Morning People** from the album Bullfrog   
by [Bullfrog](http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Bullfrog%22)
