---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-07-19 02:55:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/07/18/adrian/
slug: adrian
title: adrian!
wordpress_id: 208
tags:
- beastie boys
- best of...
- canada
- mennonite
- philadelphia
- poetry
- rocky
- sylvester stallone
- to the 5 boroughs
---

I've never felt any real need to see Philadelphia.  Tom Hanks and the Boss didn't fill me with a burning desire to visit the city of brotherly love.  American history?  Snore.  But Rocky, now there's a reason to see a city.  Anywhere that has Sylvester Stallone's bronzed Converse Allstar footprints on the steps of a huge art museum is a place that needs a look.  So yesterday a vanful of fellow orientees escaped the tedium of our (beautifully designed but still hopelessly Mennonite) compound to explore.

Now I'm a Canadian.  From Winnipeg.  Winnipeg is to some extent an ethnically diverse city, like Canada.  I hadn't realized how that diversity doesn't cross over into the traditional American racial divide.  What I'm trying to say without making an ass of myself is "Wow are there ever a lot more black people in Philly than in Winnipeg!"  And we pretty much had to drive into Chinatown to find any visibly Asian people.  Just different.  I know where you're going with this but I'm not going to show up in Beijing on Saturday (!!!) and say "Wow are there ever a lot more Chinese people here than home!"  I'm just saying that my experience of diversity at home is different than a major American urban centre.  Ha! Spelled that with an R E.  There's diversity for you.

I went to an amazing poetry performance at the University of Pennsylvania.  I love listening to good  (ie. not written by some fat white girl about her cats [I'm sorry.  That was a bit harsh.  I love you too, fat girls]) spoken-word.  The flow, the ups the downs that almost get you seasick but then . . . the bottom falls out and words just rush on by.  It's so good.  She did one called "Jazz is Sexy" and opened with a poem whose name I forget but it repeated the line "My name is Billie but life ain't never been no holiday" (apologies to the poet since I've probably fucked that up good and proper) which was amazing.  I bought two books of poetry from another woman there.  One of them is all about hip-hop, which is nicely self referential but also addresses some of the things that I think about when I try to draw lines between what's shitty and what's awesome.  I also bought the new Beastie Boys CD because in the US they don't have copy protection that prevents me from ripping it onto my iPod.

I don't feel like I'm leaving this week.  Not even a little bit.  Thursday may be messy.
