---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-09-30 15:00:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/09/30/floods/
slug: floods
title: floods
wordpress_id: 269
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- best of...
- chang jiang
- chongqing
- weakerthans
---

I went hiking around town today.  I hadn't felt like I knew anything about this city.  Part of it is my absolute lack of maps.  There's a tourist info booth downtown where I might find a map all in Chinese, but I haven't gone there yet.  So I wandered aimlessly.  I went downtown and then decided to get down to the river.  I climbed down stairs and got stuck behind fences but eventually got down to the water.

The river here is going to be rising again in a few years, so there's this huge abandoned stretch of land between the city's omnipresent apartment buildings and the river.  Down there it feels like a warzone.  Buildings have all been demolished or are in the process of being salvaged.  There are some people who still seem to live down there in buildings put together from garbage and abandoned frames.

You know the line in that Weakerthans song that says something about buildings missing like teeth? Here the buildings were standing there like teeth.  Very lonesome teeth in old bad gums.  Normally buildings here are close together, so seeing one all by itself is depressing.  It makes you tongue your gums to make sure you don't taste any raw pits.

This walk made me realize why I wanted to come here.  This river thing has fucked over a bunch of people.  They've all been moved already.  And they have new apartments.  People here don't seem to care.  So maybe I'm just doing that romanticizing the way it was.  Which I do sometimes.  But still, it's not like these people had a choice to leave their homes and move into their new apartments.

Have you seen [Northfork](http://imdb.com/title/tt0322659/)?  I like to imagine that something similar happened when they were moving people around in Wanzhou.

Also on the subject of flooding, I had to laugh at the mayor of Chongqing when he talked about the municipality's friendship with its foreign experts being permanent, "like the beauty of the three gorges."  The dam that they're building is turning the river into a freaking lake!  That beauty's so completely impermanent because of China's need for power.  It's not even funny what bullshit that was.  Everyone was diplomatic enough not to notice.  Because we hadn't been fed yet.

Listening to: **Mamas Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up To Be Cowboys**
by [Waylon Jennings & Willie Nelson](http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Waylon%20Jennings%20&%20Willie%20Nelson%22)
