---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2004-09-24 15:38:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2004/09/24/blah/
slug: blah
title: blah
wordpress_id: 262
categories:
- 中国
---

Another thing I'm not a huge fan of is being told after my classes are done for the week that the day we have to go to Chongqing is no longer Thursday but Tuesday so I have to arrange to make up the missed class.  The timing just sucks because I saw that class this afternoon and I don't have any reliable way of getting ahold of anyone in it to find out when would work for them.  And let's not even get into the idea that they'll agree to some time that obviously doesn't work for them just to keep me happy.  Fuck.  
  
So it looks like I won't get to enjoy my weekend after all.  
  
At our orientation in Beijing they told us to find something Chinese to get really excited about.  I must say I haven't yet.  I would love to learn Tai Chi or calligraphy or something, but nobody I know does that kind of stuff.  Bah.  It's raining.  
  
Since I'm on a roll here I'd also like to say how it sucks that whatever I complain about on my blog gets brought up in my weekly phone call with my mom.  So I have to censor myself a lot and not vent to the extent I'd like.  And now I'll have to feel guilty about writing this.  See?  Vicious cycle.  
  
I did get my passport back today though.  Along with my new foreign expert ID and my foreign resident permit and a foreign health permit.  Sadly it looks like they all get confiscated when I leave the country.  That's too bad because they're really neat little booklets.  Maybe that can be the thing I get really excited about: Chinese bureaucracy.  
  
Listening to: **Naima** from the album The Complete 1961 Village Vanguard Recordings (Disc 3)   
by [John Coltrane](http://www.google.com/search?q=%22John Coltrane%22)
