---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2005-07-19 07:13:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2005/07/19/proust/
slug: proust
title: proust
wordpress_id: 614
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- holly
---

Last time I wrote we were still in the West.  We hadn't embarked on our life of crime and the prospects of a 40 hour train ride without seats was still just a glimmer in our eyes.  Oh last week.  To be young again.  
  
So in Dunhuang there are these dunes.  It's the edge of the desert and the dunes are exactly what you always picture deserts looking like.  There're no rocks or scrub or whatever, just sand sinuously piled up and sculpted by wind.  The problem with these dunes is that they cost 80 yuan to get into.  Yes that's only $10US, but that's ridiculous.  So we rode bikes out there and snuck in where the fence was easy to hop over.  We parked our bikes at the very limit to which the meanest-looking dog in the world could reach and then hopped a fence and strolled across an airstrip as if we belonged there.  It's hard to be inconspicuous in the desert.  
  
But it was all good.  There was a bit of worrying whether someone would take our bikes as a retribution for our trespassing but it didn't taint anything.  We climbed a big dune and got pissed off at a Chinese guy who chucked his water bottle as far as he could from the top, and then eventually slid down the steepest part on these bambooish sleds.  Which was way too short but rocked.  Later we got our bikes and hen rode back to our hotel a very long way through the fields and farms around the small city under the light of the moon.  Sweetness.  Trip highlight and all that.  
  
Which made up for the fact that we couldn't get any train tickets out of the city.  Holly's friend in Xian never did get the emails so we decided to head straight for Beijing (so we could fly up to Yanji from there).  After an afternoon of trying and comparing prices of flights we decided to grit our teeth and get the "No Seat" class tickets on the midnight train to Beijing and hope to upgrade along the way.    
  
We were very lucky and only had to stand in hard seat for three hours before a hard sleeper became available.  Since it was three in the morning noone was around to stop us from sharing the berth.  So we each slept for a few hours curled up at opposite ends of the little bunk.  Holly didn't kick me in the head even once (even though I'd been really grumpy with the whole situation and deserved it).  At 6am I set out to get another bunk for the second night.    
  
By two that afternoon I had a berth in soft sleeper.  With a pile of screaming children, that I was scared to complain about because their guardians were the hitting of their kids type so anytime I looked annoyed they all got smacked around.  So that sucked.  But it was a place to sleep.  
  
We got to Beijing on Sunday around noon, and really easily got plane tickets to Yanji.  We spent some time hanging out in Tian An Men Square and then got on the plane.  After a Swiss guy went on and on about hockey and Gimli and Americans (Holly's been camoflauging herself to find out what people really think of her country by using my little bag with it's Canada flag) on the shuttle bus.  
  
Yanji's small but we've managed to get lost a few times.  It's very Korean so we're again having all sorts of new foods and stuff.  If you ever hear someone talk about China as being some big monolithic homogenous entity give 'em a smack from me.  Better yet, just give them smack.  A lifetime of addiction is a suitable price to pay for saying silly things.  
  
Theresa's apartment is beautiful and we can do things here like make cookies.  Booyah.  Excelsior.
