---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2005-04-18 08:35:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2005/04/18/damnit/
slug: damnit
title: Damnit!
wordpress_id: 507
categories:
- 中国
---

Right after I send my exams to the photocopier Alternet puts this up: [The Oprah Society](http://alternet.org/story/21767/).  It would have been perfect for my reading class exam.
  

  
On Saturday I was having real problems convincing one of my students that not everyone in America goes abroad all the time.  "But it's so easy for you!  You don't have to have interviews to get visas.  You work for international companies and travel all the time.  It's so difficult for us Chinese."
  

  
So I have to tell him that most Americans actually work shitty jobs and can't afford to go all over the world, and lots don't feel the need to see anywhere else.  But I have to do it in such a way that I'm not just feeding into anti-American propaganda that is also around.
  

  
In my American culture class we walk a fine line, talking about how much money people make, but also about how much other stuff costs.  In a few weeks I've got a social problems lesson scheduled where we're going to talk about crime and racism.  I have to be so careful I don't do the casual America bashing that comes so easy to Canadians, and instead talk about real problems and real solutions that are out there.  
  

  
It's way easier doing this with American than British culture, so I'm not just cribbing Fawlty Towers scripts to use as my lesson plans this semester.
