---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2005-05-20 12:21:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2005/05/20/like-a-12-gauge/
slug: like-a-12-gauge
title: like a 12 gauge
wordpress_id: 543
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- advertising
---

Last night I hung out with Rob and Irene for the first time in months.  We had hotpot with some of Irene's friends who include a cop.
  

  
This cop asked me what I thought his job was, and I had nothing.  Eventually he mimed going for a gun and I got it.  His wife had been giving me hints with saluting motions, but that makes me think soldier not peace officer.
  

  
But he's not a beat cop or a detective.  He's the cop who is also a journalist.  I'd never thought about that before.  We have police officers who deal with the press (and hence never get told anything so they can honestly not answer questions), but here they cut out the middleman and just write their own stories.  He was telling me (through Irene) about this program they have for these deaf-mute kids who're caught thieving.  Instead of throwing them in jail they're trying to give them some education.  He was very proud of his role in this, and CCTV had been in town doing a story on it recently.
  

  
Another interesting thing was his family name.  It was Jue or something, but it's very rare.  There are only two families with that name in Wanzhou.  In my classes about half the students are Wangs, Zhangs or Zhous. 
  

  
We went out to 2008 (a bar) to meet one of Rob's friends after dinner and played very difficult drinking games of two handed rock paper scissors.  After we were done there I walked back home.
  

  
And no I haven't seen Star Wars yet.  It's playing in Nanchong.  Those bastards.  All we've got is the iced tea merchandizing tie-ins.  It's a Chinese iced tea, not one of the multinationals.  But no M&Ms or Tacos.  Pepsi is on a big soccer kick here right now with surfing David Beckham and teammates on all the commercials.
  

  
I'm a big fan of dramatic Canadian politics from a distance.  It would probably be annoying to have it all over the news all the time, but getting as much as I need from the Net and my late Maclean's mags is pretty good.  With the breathing room now I've got a bit more time to send in my forms (and more importantly get them back) so I can vote when the election does happen.
  

  
I almost forgot: my speech to welcome my new cockroachian overlords got put in the drawer when I woke up this morning and found the body where I'd left it.
