---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2005-05-31 13:54:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2005/05/31/order-67/
slug: order-67
title: order 67
wordpress_id: 558
categories:
- movies
- 中国
---

Well, I've seen it.  And it was good.  (Empire, of course, is still the best.)
  

  
The funny thing about seeing it on a Chinese pirated DVD is that it was the Russian version, so the opening crawl was indecipherable (luckily it's one of those things I've read before in spoilers).  I tried turning on the English captions and I'm pretty sure they were for a Helen Keller movie.  The audio was all in English so it wasn't a big problem.  And the power went out just before they decide where to send the kids.  So I had to reset all the stuff again.
  

  
One of the benefits of reading all sorts of spoilers beforehand is that sometimes the bad things aren't as awful as you expected.  Like Vader's "Noooooo!"  Or the Death Star construction (which I have to assume is a prototype because it could not have taken 20 years to build).  And personally, I didn't think Anakin's flip to the dark side was too quick.
  

  
The thing about this whole restoring balance to the force thing is that it almost seemed like it was necessary.  Not in a "kill all the Jedi" kind of way, but I can see the point where all that non-attachment philosophy gets quite awful.
  

  
Yoda tells Anakin to accept and be happy that someone close to him will die.  It'll be good that they're joining up with the living force yadda yadda yadda.  But that is a pretty shitty way to live.  He reprimands Anakin for feeling attached to a person because that leads to jealousy, but he leaves no middle ground.
  

  
It's only in Empire when Luke tells Yoda he needs to save his friends, that sometimes people are more important than philosophy, that you're starting to come to a real balance.
  

  
The Council has gone far enough to detach themselves from emotions but they haven't detached themselves from their nonattachment so that they can live real lives.  That's the important thing, really.
  

  
Also, I hadn't seen or heard anything about that shot as Vader takes his first breath in the mask, which was completely worth my dollar.
