---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2005-02-15 09:07:00+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2005/02/15/big-balls/
slug: big-balls
title: big balls
wordpress_id: 436
categories:
- 中国
tags:
- best of...
- fireworks
- gong fu
- hong kong
---

Well, Chinese New Year is long over and the libraries are open for free net access again.  Yay blog.

I never have to see fireworks ever again.  It's very good that fireworks have never been too huge a focus for my life because I'd now have performed cunnilingus on the virgin Mary far too prematurely.  Hong Kong's New Year fireworks were amazing.  There was no wimpy warning shot; it started with a cloud of light and noise.  The choreography actually worked, there was a variety of exploding balls, but no giant soaring cock ducking and weaving between buildings in the skyline.

I saw them with the people from this Danish guesthouse I stayed at where I met an Aussie guy named Grant who is studying Chau Gar Praying Mantis Kung Fu from the Grand Master here in Hong Kong.  The idea is that he'll train for a year here and then go back to Brisbane to open a school there.  This school will be in direct competition with the school run by the only other Aussie to study with the Grand Master.  That other teacher "did the master wrong" in some murkily indeterminate way and so he wants Grant to go down there and steal all his students.

The retreat here in Lantau is boring but it's great to hang out with my friends.  We've been eating well outside of the retreat centre itself.  The Indian food at Chungking Mansions was really good, and there's stuff like nachos at the bars around here.  Also, if you're in Hong Kong, go to Ned Kelly's Last Stand.  It made me realize how much I miss live music.  It felt like a speakeasy and there were people from all these marching bands who were joining in with the house band.  Beer was stupid expensive, but whatever.

That's it, can't dump too much out there at once.
