---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2009-06-03 04:03:45+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/?p=1815
published: false
slug: '1815'
title: i like my yellow jacket
wordpress_id: 1815
categories:
- library
- music
- winnipeg
tags:
- bicycle
- boats
- danny michel
- hockey
- mister man
- reader services
- simpsons
- the falcon
- wecc
- wifi
- winnipeg
---

This weekend I went to a fire and played some boats and drank some beers while watching some hockey. Oh and on Friday I saw Danny Michel play the WECC. I love how his shows feel like your watching him build things. Out of music.

Yesterday I worked at Reader Services (and no I didn't check out what the department is officially called), which was odd. They don't really have a lot for you to do down there, so I ended up chatting about cell phones with one of the other guys who was working. Let's call him Mister Man. I'd always assumed this guy was some business office or at least full timer kind of guy. He's in his forties and walks around in his sport coat like a person with seniority. And yes he's been working at the library for 15 years, but is a part timer.

Mister Man's also a real asshole. Complained about the idiots and about cyclists and about mac users and about human rights and about the free wifi and about people who have problems with the computers and about not getting enough hours. And he talked about last year when he was "doing more with stocks" and that's why he needed a good reliable cell phone. We got off on a wrong foot when a patron came to ask about Simpsons comics and he said they were up on the fourth floor. She said they'd told her there were also some down on the first. So he brings her to the comics section. While they're gone I check on the computer and found that the teen section had a few checked in. They returned without books and I said "Well it looks like there might be some in the teen section..." and Mr. Man whirls and snaps at me to "Slow down there! Everybody's in such a rush." So I got back to looking up Wesleyan splinter groups in England on Wikipedia (there's one known as the Peculiar People).

I feel like I should be more confrontational with people who are abrasive assholes, not just let them dominate and drive conversations. But it's not like I have anything to replace Mister Man's griping with. So I just let him talk.

Yeah, free WiFi at the Winnipeg Public Libraries starting yesterday. That's the public service part of my blog today.
