---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2009-11-17 07:34:48+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/?p=2005
published: false
slug: ugh
title: ugh
wordpress_id: 2005
categories:
- library
- whining
tags:
- artie
- bus
- dreams
- lsa
- real estate
- reorganization
- section 22
- sofia
- targ
- the falcon
- uss intrepid
- vina
- winter
---

I've been trying not to worry a lot about the library reorganization. Worrying wasn't going to change anything so why bother. The enlightened thing to do is to just let all these things glide over and past without a ripple. Something like that. I'll be going to school next fall anyway so who cares?

Turns out it's me. I'm someone who actually does care.

We got an email at 3:54 this afternoon telling us where everyone ended up. All the LSA3s at least. It'll be a while before the circulation staff gets sorted. And I'm heading back to Intrepid. I knew this was a possibility, getting booted from the Falcon. All we needed was an influx of two people and I wouldn't be walking to work anymore. That influx happened and bye bye I go.

My new job at Intrepid is different from the one they wouldn't let me fucking leave last year. I will be on the Adult side of the desk primarily. I will be reporting to Art, not Targ, which is very good. But. Vina won't be there because she's coming downtown (to Section 22). There are fewer hours available (my new package of hours is 27% smaller than what I worked at the Falcon) but there's still going to be a vacant position in Miniserv so there will be a few hours to grab. I'm still not the senior part-timer, so Sofia will be getting first crack at those extra hours. 

If this current nice weather means that winter will be colder when it hits or that the whole thing's going to last longer, I will cry. Last year they kept me waiting out there for 4 months before letting me get to the place I should have been. It was a horrible winter and I took the fucking bus through it. Or I walked. And now they're sending me back. To die waiting for a bus in the cold. Well, we don't actually get transferred to the new positions till February. So I spend another fun-filled fucking winter of "waiting to go to a new job!" We all know how happy that made me last goddamned year.

I haven't gone to bed yet because I'm not going to sleep well. This is just going to add to it. Last night I dreamt of For Sale signs outside my building. Big huge signs I needed a ladder to climb so I could get enough leverage to wrestle them to the ground. I went home today to feed the cat and was relieved to see there are still only three signs. Normal sized.
