---
author: jjackunrau
comments: true
date: 2011-01-02 08:11:04+00:00
layout: post
link: https://hungryj.wordpress.com/2011/01/02/2588/
slug: '2588'
title: PEK-YVRwards
wordpress_id: 2588
categories:
- travel
- vancouver
- 中国
tags:
- airport
- balcony
- beer
- beijing
- birthday
- chengdu
- chrysanthemum
- departures
- five star
- holly
- hot springs
- hotel
- milk
- nanchong
- roses
- salt
- shower
- vancouver
- wine
---

And my month with Holly is over. Le fucking sigh. The flight from Chengdu to Beijing this morning was nice and smooth, uneventful, but even without problems or delays and such it's a lot crappier flying alone when you're not being met by someone wonderful at the other end.

In the last week we celebrated Holly's birthday at Nanchong's newest five-star resort. It'd been open for ten days. Holly was getting some flyers for the bakery printed and in the printshop there was a stack of little brochureish things for this resort that they'd been working on. Maybe the stack was like the offcuts or something. I'm not sure. But Holly saw it and said "Hot Springs? Nanchong doesn't have hot springs!" And then she called to find out if she was reading that wrong or what the deal was. It turned out that there were hot springs (human-created) and that rooms were half-price. So we booked her birthday off from the bakery and went out to live in the lap of luxury for 20 hours or so.

And yeah it was really nice. The hotsprings were outside, but hot enough that I didn't die. They had like twenty or so different pools where you could soak in water with different stuff in it. We sat in rosepetal water, chrysanthemum, salt, and red wine. We skipped beer and milk. There were more, but we watched the sunset and really that was enough. There were a bunch of rich businessmen and their meinus also taking the waters. Our balcony looked out over the hills and the whole thing was very relaxing.

An interesting thing about the room was the shower. Holly'd seen this before, so it's more a China thing than a "this hotel" thing. The wall separating the shower from the bedroom had a floor to ceiling window, with a shower curtain on the inside. I don't think I'd ever really thought about showering as a spectator sport before. Especially not with a Chinese shower and its traditionally fickle hot water supply. My dancing back and forth between scalding and freezing would have been at least as entertaining than anything on the TV.

The rest of the week was mostly at the bakery. We played some Settlers and read some books. I started getting ready for school to start again. And now I'm flying home. Good news though, Holly's planning to come visit Vancouver in February, so it's only six weeks. Not too many more long-term departures are left.
