---
title: narrowing down
author: jjackunrau
date: 2017-01-15 20:15:00 -07:00
layout: post
categories:
- edmonton
tags:
- biking
- books
- data
- log
- privacy
---

A thing I've been trying to do this month is keep track of what I do. What it is I spend my time at. I'm not quite going for a minute by minute breakdown, but there are a lot of tools out there that can make this sort of thing work. I've been using [ifttt](http://ifttt.com) to consolidate information about my activities in a kind of log. 

It's all feeding into a spreadsheet, a gloriously multicolumned spreadsheet so I can piece together charts about what my life is like. To see the days when it's cold and I bloody-mindedly do go for a bike ride, or not.

What the data-view of me seems to indicate is that I Work, Read, Bike and Write. I might add a Play Games tracker at some point, but I don't play many games any more (I wish I did).

The thing about this is that I'm feeding it into my spreadsheet, collecting my own data. It's stuff that I give to different online services and I don't know exactly how I feel about being my own surveillance apparatus. But my budget tracking has helped me be aware of how I spend my money, so maybe this will help. And I'm not giving it all to a company to track it for me. Well, the spreadsheet is a Google Document so I guess they could be grabbing it all. Maybe this is a stupid experiment.

But what I wanted was something to feel like my memories and experiences are real. People I admire are into bullet-journalling, which is a way of maintaining todo lists and logging a life. I feel like my approach is good for capturing the quantitative data and letting me be a bit more haphazard in my qualitative data like journalling or writing here or what have you. I don't know. Still probably all terrible and hypocritical for a person who tries to talk about privacy in my dayjob. Selah.

I guess having 5 things in life to care about (at least enough to track) is all right. It feels narrow though. It feels like life is funnelling me down into someone I'm not sure I want to be. Wheeeeeeee.