+++
categories = ['cycling']
date = '2025-09-07'
description = "Like Deadgoat but backwards"
slug = 'peloton2025'
tags = ['cx', 'races','southern baptist seminary','peloton','aba cx cup','cochrane']
title = "welcome to the nishidome"
draft = false
+++

## Race Info

> * [Tech Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HFlZ93sIXsmhb9YyPGPSbXUaucl_n9ebBsZbQA0aPE8/edit?tab=t.0)
> * Location: Canadian Southern Baptist Seminary - Cochrane
> * Course: [stravalink]()

The Peloton Cycling Club put on "Lampy's Revenge" the day after [Deadgoat Supercross](../deadgoat2025/) on the same grounds but in the opposite direction, I believe[^1].

[^1]: I had to go back to Edmonton so I wasn't there for the race.

## Results

* [ABA Results]()
* [CrossResults]()

### Open Women

1. Emma SCOTT[^8]
2. Justine SAGAN
3. Jay SMITH

[^8]: Third place the day before.
### Open Men

1. Mark FAGNAN[^6]
2. Shawn BUNNIN[^7]
3. Colton ZABOLOTNEY

[^6]: Second place the day before.
[^7]: Second place in 2023. First place the day before.
### Expert Men

1. Joel DYCK
2. Steven SOON[^2]
3. Jared GERVAIS[^3]

[^2]: First place the day before.
[^3]: Third place the day before.
### Sport Women

1. Daniella BREWSTER[^11]
2. Charlie PITTARD[^12]
3. Madeline MAGLEO

[^11]: Second place the day before.
[^12]: First place the day before.
### Sport Men

1. Cor SINKE
2. Quinten MACKLEM[^9]
3. Nigel BAINES[^10]

[^9]: First place the day before.
[^10]: First place in 2023.
### Novice Men

1. James CHALKLEY[^4]
2. Dylan COOK
3. Zachary BROMBEISS[^5]

[^4]: First place the day before.
[^5]: Third place the day before.

### My Results

* Did not race. 

## Read More

* [Deadgoat SuperCross 2024](../deadgoat2024/)
* [The Real Diehl CX 2023](../peloton2023/)
