content/posts/230916-jimhornergrandprix2023.md, before:

+++
categories = ['cycling']
date = '2023-09-16'
description = 'frosty morning off-cambers'
slug = 'jimhornergrandprix2023'
tags = ['cx', 'races','capilano park','jim horner','juventus','aba cx cup','race reports','edmonton']
title = 'jim horner grand prix 2023'
draft = false
+++


> * [Tech Guide](https://www.juventus.ab.ca/jim-horner-grand-prix-of-cyclocross) 
> * Location: [Capilano Park](../../bike/capilanopark/) Edmonton
> * Course: [stravalink](https://www.strava.com/segments/35448229)

I was so happy this race wasn't taking place in [Argyll Park](../../bike/argyllpark/) this year. I hated the downhill that someone broke a collarbone on last year and lost so much time on it. [Capilano Park](../../bike/capilanopark/) was near my house and I could practice on it. But I didn't practice hard enough on wet enough grass, because hoo boy did I not do well on that terrain.

![first lap once I was back on my bike](/jhgp23_mob.jpg)

It doesn't look like much there, but that grass was really dewy and for me that was tricky doing the turning back up a hill after going down it. Right after the start line there was a steep uphill, then three of these down and ups. Oof. I wiped out in the first uphill and then had trouble clipping back in and by then I was way back from following my benchmark rival.

![muddy runup](/jhgp23_shoulder_4x3p.jpg)

As the laps went on and we spread out it was better. I liked the course apart from those slippy down and ups. I shouldered my bike for the runups and even managed to navigate a bad hairpin fairly successfully 3/5 of the laps. That didn't stop me from being exhausted coming up the slippy hill trying to maintain traction. My kid was there cheering for me and I had enough breath to tell him it was my "I want to go home" lap.

![wanna go home climb](/jhgp23_climb_4x3p.jpg)

By the last lap I'd passed a few people and was well-ensconced in my 12th place between a couple of ERTC riders. One of them lost time by mishandling the barriers which gave me a bit of a cushion. In the end, despite it sucking, I was sorry I had to work the next day so I'd miss [School of Cross](../schoolofcross2023/), running on the same course.

Later in the day the smoke took over, so the Open Women category had a shortened race, and the Open Men didn't take to the field, which makes for a disappointing season.

# results

* [ABA Results](https://zone4.ca/race/2023-09-16/6f1c068e/results)
* [CrossResults](https://www.crossresults.com/race/11683)

## Podia

### Expert Men

1. Paulo ALVES
2. Emile VOGEL-NAKAMURA
3. Jacob PLAYFAIR

### Novice Men

1. Quinten MACKLEM
2. Evan KINDZIERSKI
3. Benjamin UTTING

### Open Women

1. Christiane BILODEAU
2. Shawna DONALDSON
3. Emma SCOTT

### Sport Men

1. Jack PURDY
2. Ethan MCGHAN
3. Brendan CARDIFF[^1] 

[^1]: [Velocity Cycling Club](../../bike/vcc/) woo!

### Sport Women

1. Rachel DUMONT
2. Kristin BAKER
3. Sarah WELSH

## my results

* 12th place (out of 24)

# read more

* [My 2022 Experience of Jim Horner](../jimhornergrandprix2022/)

Commit message:

removing wrong directory structure and adding new photo attribution

content/posts/230916-jimhornergrandprix2023.md, after:

+++
categories = ['cycling']
date = '2023-09-16'
description = 'frosty morning off-cambers'
slug = 'jimhornergrandprix2023'
tags = ['cx', 'races','capilano park','jim horner','juventus','aba cx cup','race reports','edmonton']
title = 'jim horner grand prix 2023'
draft = false
+++

> * [Tech Guide](https://www.juventus.ab.ca/jim-horner-grand-prix-of-cyclocross) 
> * Location: [Capilano Park](../capilanopark/) Edmonton
> * Course: [stravalink](https://www.strava.com/segments/35448229)

I was so happy this race wasn't taking place in [Argyll Park](../argyllpark/) this year. I hated the downhill that someone broke a collarbone on last year and lost so much time on it. [Capilano Park](../capilanopark/) was near my house and I could practice on it. But I didn't practice hard enough on wet enough grass, because hoo boy did I not do well on that terrain.

![first lap once I was back on my bike](/jhgp23_mob.jpg "Crowd of riders bunched up going up and down grassy embankment.")[^1]

[^1]: Back in the mob once I was back on my bike - Photo by Nancy St. Hilaire

It doesn't look like much there, but that grass was really dewy and for me that was tricky doing the turning back up a hill after going down it. Right after the start line there was a steep uphill, then three of these down and ups. Oof. I wiped out in the first uphill and then had trouble clipping back in and by then I was way back from following my benchmark rival.

![muddy runup](/jhgp23_shoulder_4x3p.jpg "Bearded rider carrying a bike up a hill")[^2]

[^2]: Running up that hill - Photo by Nancy St. Hilaire

As the laps went on and we spread out it was better. I liked the course apart from those slippy down and ups. I shouldered my bike for the runups and even managed to navigate a bad hairpin fairly successfully 3/5 of the laps. That didn't stop me from being exhausted coming up the slippy hill trying to maintain traction. My kid was there cheering for me and I had enough breath to tell him it was my "I want to go home" lap.

![wanna go home climb](/jhgp23_climb_4x3p.jpg "Wanna go home climb")[^3]

[^3]: I wanna go home climb - Photo by Nancy St. Hilaire

By the last lap I'd passed a few people and was well-ensconced in my 12th place between a couple of ERTC riders. One of them lost time by mishandling the barriers which gave me a bit of a cushion. In the end, despite it sucking, I was sorry I had to work the next day so I'd miss [School of Cross](../schoolofcross2023/), running on the same course.

Later in the day the smoke took over, so the Open Women category had a shortened race, and the Open Men didn't take to the field, which makes for a disappointing season.

# results

* [ABA Results](https://zone4.ca/race/2023-09-16/6f1c068e/results)
* [CrossResults](https://www.crossresults.com/race/11683)

## Podia

### Expert Men

1. Paulo ALVES
2. Emile VOGEL-NAKAMURA
3. Jacob PLAYFAIR

### Novice Men

1. Quinten MACKLEM
2. Evan KINDZIERSKI
3. Benjamin UTTING

### Open Women

1. Christiane BILODEAU
2. Shawna DONALDSON
3. Emma SCOTT

### Sport Men

1. Jack PURDY
2. Ethan MCGHAN
3. Brendan CARDIFF[^1] 

[^1]: [Velocity Cycling Club](../vcc/) woo!

### Sport Women

1. Rachel DUMONT
2. Kristin BAKER
3. Sarah WELSH

## my results

* 12th place (out of 24)

# read more

* [My 2022 Experience of Jim Horner](../jimhornergrandprix2022/)
